(Drum and Bugle Corps)
Narrator:
Welcome to the "West Wing
Week," your guide to
everything that's happening at
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
This week, big news!
President Obama announces that
American service members have
killed Osama bin Laden.
The President:
Justice has been done.
Narrator:
Even as the President spoke about this historic milestone,
he also dealt with domestic issues like creating jobs,
reforming immigration policy and reaching out to communities
in the South devastated by recent tornadoes.
The Teacher of the Year and the
Prince of Wales also stopped by.
That's April 29th to May 5th,
or "A Good Day for America!"
The President:
As a country we will never
tolerate our security
being threatened, nor
stand idly by when our people
have been killed.
Narrator: On
Friday, April 29th, the
President and Mrs. Obama
visited Tuscaloosa, Alabama,
to view damage from deadly
tornadoes and meet with Governor
Bentley and other state and
local officials and families
affected by the horrific devastation.
The President:
Hey, y'all!
Mr. McGee:
Hey, how you doin'?
The President:
Was this your home, sir?
Mr. McGee:
Yes, sir.
The President:
I'm so sorry for your loss.
Good to see you.
Narrator:
The President also
visited Holt Elementary School
to see relief efforts in action
and to thank first responders.
Debbie Crawford:
I'll have food and water
over there for those
that need it.
We've been gone from here,
you know, in 48 hours,
we've been gone about four hours
is all since we've been here.
President:
Well, you ought to be tired, huh?
Debbie Crawford:
I'm a little tired.
The President:
We can't bring those who
have been lost back.
They're alongside
God at this point.
We can help maybe a little bit
with the families dealing with
the grief of having
a loved one lost.
But the property damage,
which is obviously extensive,
that's something that we
can do something about.
Narrator:
Later on his way to Miami to
deliver a commencement address,
the First Family
stopped in at Cape Canaveral.
Though the final
mission of the U.S.
Space Shuttle Endeavour was
delayed for technical reasons,
they were able to take a look at
Space Shuttle Atlantis and meet
the astronauts who would
have gone on the mission.
Mark Kelly:
Mike will be, after our flight,
at the end of our flight will be
the American with the most
time in space.
The President:
Most time in space.
This guy?
He's a young guy.
He's still got his hair!
Narrator:
Later, at the Miami Dade
Community College graduation,
the President stressed to
students the focus and
determination necessary to
succeed in the next phase of life.
Bystander:
It's okay to pull it up and over,
if you would.
The President:
You guys don't really know, do you!
(laughter)
The President:
And your accomplishment today
is vital to America
reclaiming the highest proportion
of college graduates
in the world by 2020,
so I am proud of you!
(cheering)
I am proud of you!
(applause)
I know that for many
of you reaching this day
wasn't easy.
(laughter)
See?
Narrator:
On Saturday, even
while receiving updates on the
preparation for the
mission in Pakistan,
the President attended
the Annual White House
Correspondents Dinner, a
traditional Washington, D.C.
event that brings members
of the press corps,
politicians and other
public figures together.
The President:
Good to see ya!
David Jackson:
Good to see you!
The President:
How are you?
David Jackson:
Fine.
How are you, sir?
Thank you for coming
to our dinner.
The President:
Glad to be here.
Celebrities, senators,
journalists,
essential government employees
--
(audience laughter)
-- nonessential
government employees.
(audience laughter)
You know who you are!
Narrator:
On Sunday, May 1st,
the West Wing was abuzz with
activity as a U.S. special
operations team killed
Osama bin Laden at a compound
in Pakistan at the President's direction.
The Vice President:
Good job.
Narrator:
Before informing the American
people, the President
and Vice President
called former Presidents' Bush
and Clinton as well as
congressional leaders to give
them the news.
The Vice President:
The reason I'm calling is
to tell you we killed,
yeah, we killed --
The President:
Tonight I can report to the
American people and to the world
that the United States has
conducted an operation that
killed Osama bin Laden, the
leader of al Qaeda and a
terrorist who's responsible
for the murder of thousands of
innocent men, women and children.
Good job, National
Security Team.
Leon Panetta:
Thanks for that.
The President:
Yeah, I'm proud of you.
Your guys did a great job.
Leon Panetta:
They did.
Narrator:
On Monday, May 2nd,
President Obama posthumously
awarded Private First
Class Anthony T. Kaho'Ohanohano
and Private First Class Henry Svehla
the Medal of Honor
for conspicuous gallantry
displayed during the Korean War.
The President:
We're so glad we can do
this for your brother.
Dorothy Matthews:
Oh, I'm so proud.
The President:
Well, we're so proud of
him obviously.
And this is my wife Michelle.
First Lady Michelle Obama:
I'm Michelle.
The President:
I have to say that as Commander
in Chief, I could not be
prouder of our
men and women in uniform.
That is true now
in today's wars.
It has been true
in all of our wars.
And it is why we are here today.
Narrator:
Later that night,
the President hosted a
Congressional Bipartisan Dinner
at the White House inviting
legislators and their spouses to
come spend some time together
outside of politics.
The President:
I also know there have been
several moments like this
during the course of this
year that have brought us
together as an American family,
whether it was the tragedy in
Tucson or most recently our
unified response to the terrible
storms that have taken
place in the South.
Last night was one
of those moments.
Narrator:
On Tuesday, May 3rd,
President Obama welcomed the
"Teachers of the Year"
to the White House.
The President:
Look at these outstanding
teachers!
Come on in, guys.
Narrator:
One from every
state and territory including
the Nation's
Teacher of the Year,
Michelle Shearer from Maryland.
Announcer:
Mr. President, the
National Teacher of the Year
from Maryland, Michelle Shearer.
The President:
This is it, Michelle.
Congratulations!
So nice to see 'ya.
Michelle Shearer:
It's wonderful.
The President:
And you didn't have to come too far.
That was the nice thing.
Michelle:
No, we didn't.
Actually, it was
about an hour or so.
Not too far.
Narrator:
The President spent
the rest of the day in meetings,
first with his Cabinet.
(applause)
The President:
All right, let's get back to work.
Narrator:
He then met with
members of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus to discuss the
importance of fixing the broken
immigration system for our
nation's 21st century economic
and security needs so that
America can win the future.
On Wednesday, May 4th, President
Obama attended the Wounded
Warrior Project "Soldier Ride"
on the South Lawn accompanied by
Assistant Secretary for Veteran
Affairs Tammy Duckworth and
General James Cartwright.
The President:
Ready?
You look ready.
1, 2, 3. (starter horn)
(cheering)
Narrator:
The ride provides adaptive
cycling opportunities across
the country to help wounded
warriors restore their
physical and emotional well-being.
Later that afternoon the
President welcomed
Prince Charles to the
White House.
The Prince is in America
examining sustainable
agriculture practices and will
also visit an urban garden in
Washington, D.C.
On Thursday, May 5th, President
Obama traveled to New York,
a city that sustained the worst
terrorist attack on American
soil almost ten years ago in
a plot masterminded by the
recently-killed Osama bin Laden.
The President made his first
stops at a firehouse and police
station to honor those first
responders who paid the ultimate
sacrifice on September 11th.
The President:
Those guys took those
extraordinary risks going into
Pakistan that they
were doing it in part because of
the sacrifices that were
made in this station.
They were doing it in the name
of your brothers that were lost.
Narrator:
He then attended a wreath-laying
at Ground Zero where the
Twin Towers were
destroyed on that fateful day
and spoke with some of
the victims' families.
To find out more information on
any of these topics or to see
complete videos of these
events, go to WhiteHouse.gov.
And thanks again for checking
out your West Wing Week!
The President:
This was my first school.
I went to first grade
in Neolani School.
Beautiful school.
It's up in Manoa.
Up in the mountains.
It's really nice.
Kristen Lum Brummel:
Well, my students send their love.
It has been a great honor.
The President:
Tell everybody I said hi, okay?
Kristen Lum Brummel:
I will definitely do that.
Thank you so much, sir.
The President:
Tell them the foundation
of all my success was
Neolani School.
Kristen Lum Brummel:
I will repeat that many times over.
Thank you so much.
The President:
Thank you.